>>REGINA MEREDITH: Among
the many divination systems
available to us in our life to
help us navigate through it,
we came across a really profound
one called the Gene Keys.
Its originator is
Richard Rudd, who
is both a mystic and
gifted with this knowledge.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Thank you for a meeting
with us in London.
I know you had to hoof it
little bit to get here,
and you've just
caught your breath.
And just for the
sake of the viewers,
we're right on the
flight path to Heathrow,
so we'll be hearing a lot
of ambient sound of the city
while we're doing this, so.
You know, once you know about
it, you just forget about it.
So I have a couple things I
want to get into first off.
Which is a lot of people in
the circle of people I know,
know about Human Design.
Not as many are familiar yet
with the Gene Keys, which
is really interesting, because
it's a really refined, kind
of stepped up
version, in a sense.
So tell us how the Gene
Keys came about first.
>>RICHARD RUDD: Yeah.
Well, I started off being
a student of Human Design.
And for many years I studied
with the founder, Ra,
and he was very
kind enough to allow
me to take Human
Design into the UK.
So I became the first person
to bring it over here.
And I trained as a teacher
and got very into it.
And there was always
this small part of me
that was uncomfortable with it.
I was uncomfortable
with some of the terms.
I felt a kind of
limitation, like I
was a little bit boxed in.
But I continued my research
for about seven years or so.
And seven years is a bit of
a number in Human Design.
It's a cellular imprinting.
And right towards the end
of my seven year cycle,
I had a series of awakenings,
I suppose you could call them.
One big one.
>>REGINA: Can we talk
about one big one?
Is that the St. Benedict's
eye story, or a different one.
>>RUDD: A different one.
>>REGINA: Tell us
both then, because I
found that interesting.
>>RUDD: This one was-- I've had
two big awakenings in my life.
One was back in
1996, the first one.
And the second one was, as I was
evolving through Human Design,
it was in 2004.
And I was actually on
the way to a course
where I was innovating.
It was called, The 64 Gifts.
And I'd taken the
I Ching hexagrams,
and I wanted to make them
very approachable for people.
So I thought, well, what are
the gifts in these gates?
In Human Design, he
calls them gates.
You know, what are the
gifts in this matrix?
And so I had these
64 words, and I
was teaching-- I was
on my way to Newcastle
to teach this course.
And I was sitting with a
friend of mine, Vernor Pitsau,
from Austria.
He's a psychotherapist.
And we had this
breakthrough on the train.
He said to me, you know,
these gifts have shadows.
And I said, you
know, you're right.
They do.
And we spent the rest
of the three hours
on the journey pinpointing
and naming the shadows.
And I was with an
expert in shadow,
because he's 30 years
a psychotherapist.
So we really nailed
down these patterns.
And we got to Newcastle,
and I thought, well,
what are we going
to do with all that?
And then that night, a
whole other level opened up,
and I wrote down the
higher key notes,
which I call now the siddhis.
It's the full siddhi.
>>REGINA: Was it
almost as though you
were having a download of sorts?
>>RUDD: Oh, yeah.
Absolutely.
And it was much easier
than the shadows,
which took a lot of
kind of hard work.
These just came in a stream.
And I never changed them,
because they came out perfect,
whereas the shadows, I had
to adjust and work through,
and some of them
needed changing.
Anyway, that wasn't my
mystical experience.
But it came after that,
when I had this matrix.
There was suddenly
a whole new matrix.
And then I went into a
spontaneous awakened state,
where I-- it's hard to
explain such a state--
but I saw a lot of
things, and I transcended
this old model of Human Design.
And I saw that humanity
was going to transcend.
And I realized that that
model was a transitory model.
And so it was, in
a way, unfinished.
And I saw a whole
stream of information--
I actually had access to
it-- that was left out
of the original Human
Design revelation.
And so that then
became my mission,
to complete that transmission
that started in 1987.
And it was very clear to
me that that was my role.
I saw that very, very
clear in that space.
>>REGINA: And so
you were looking
for more dimension, as you say.
Because Human Design can
be interpreted, of course,
depending on the
ability of the person
interpreting it, to a
number of different depths.
But it does tend to be a little
less deep in its dimension,
certainly, than what
the Gene Keys offers.
I mean, even if you're trying
to give a self reading.
I mean, it's quite interesting.
You have the tools to do
that in the Gene Keys,
that you don't have so
much with Human Design.
And I want to ask you something
to lay a foundation here.
So in Human Design, you
have the classic typology.
And the population is split
into these typologies.
Can just that foundation
for us a moment before we
move into what you've done?
>>RUDD: Sure.
Yes, Human Design
breaks down, as you
said, human beings into types
and profiles, they're called.
So that you have four
different broad types.
And they're really
the mechanical--
they describe the mechanical
functioning of human beings.
That's really it.
It's just the
mechanical functioning.
>>REGINA: Which is
useful in and of itself
if you're not aware
of that in yourself.
>>RUDD: Absolutely.
It was very useful for me.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
What are you?
>>RUDD: I'm the Generator Type.
See, I don't like
these terms, even.
It makes me sound
like a machine.
>>REGINA: I know.
But we're just talking
the basic mechanics
that you have built upon.
>>RUDD: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So OK.
A Generator Type.
And list-- I would just like to
characterize those four types.
And I'm a Projector Type.
So let's talk about
what these things mean,
and then that that's
mechanical, functional, and then
we're going to move on.
>>RUDD: Yeah, fine.
It's been a while since
I've done Human Design.
So it's not fresh in me.
The Manifestor Type.
That's 8% of humanity.
The Generator Type, there are
two variations of Generators.
>>REGINA: Mm-hm.
Manifesting Generator
and Generator.
Yeah.
>>RUDD: Exactly.
And they're 70%
approximately, of humanity.
And then Projectors.
I think they're about 20%.
And then 1%--
>>REGINA: Is Reflector?
>>RUDD: Or 2%, Reflectors, yeah.
>>REGINA: And so that that's
an interesting blank slate.
[LAUGHS] It's almost like
a person in that category,
if anyone has done Human
Design, watching this,
it's almost like just a mirror
walking around for everything
else surrounding it.
>>RUDD: Yes, absolutely.
>>REGINA: Which is fascinating.
OK.
So let's get to
the-- if you don't
mind sharing the St. Benedict's
eye story, because I liked it.
>>RUDD: It was just-- it felt
like an appropriate place
to begin my book.
I'm a poet and a storyteller,
and I love stories.
So it actually wasn't
a massive experience.
It was just a really nice
story of me meditating
in this grotto in Italy,
where St. Benedict slept.
And I was in there early.
I'd got to the place early.
I was actually travelling
through Italy with my parents
at the time, to visit the
cemetery where my uncle was
killed during the
second world war.
So it was a really nice journey.
It was a sort of
ancestral journey.
And I kept peeling off to
go to these sacred places,
and this was one of them,
up in the mountains.
And so I was allowed in early,
before any of the tourists
got there.
And so I had two or three
hours alone in the grotto.
And as I was lying there,
where he had his head,
there's this famous--
because there's
this kind of pillow in the
rock where he supposedly laid
his head and slept.
And so I put my head
there, and I laid there
for about three hours.
And he had this great vision.
He was down there for years,
just being lowered food.
And then he came out with
this incredible vision
that became the
Benedictine movement.
Because he saw
these 12 churches.
Essentially, he saw this
vision of the new Jerusalem,
and then he replicated it on
the material plane, as he saw.
But I was lying
down there, and I
saw this pair of eyes,
very, very bright eyes,
in this moment.
It just was a shock
to me, in a way.
And they were eyes just brimming
with certainty and truth.
And it's not often you
see eyes like that.
But there was no doubt in them.
There was no shadow.
There was just only
light and truth.
And so that was the St.
Benedict's eyes story,
because it's symbolic,
in a way, of you know,
what happened to him
can happen to anyone.
And that's what's
inside all of us.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That clarity and
that awakened state.
>>RUDD: That light, yes.
Exactly.
>>REGINA: And how did
the-- you mention briefly,
but you don't go into it in
the book, the Great White
Brotherhood factor into this
whole system, the download.
What is the story behind it?
Because you didn't say
much about it in the book,
and it caught my attention.
>>RUDD: Did it?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>RUDD: Interesting.
When you say the Great
White Brotherhood,
do you mean the celestial
one or the actual manifest--
>>REGINA: Whichever one you
were talking about in the book.
>>RUDD: Well, there are
two-- there are levels.
>>REGINA: Yes, I understand.
>>RUDD: Funnily
enough, I've just
come back from Bulgaria,
where the actual Great White
Brotherhood, in the form,
gather in the mountains
and do their paneurhythmy dance.
And they're the most incredible
people I've ever met.
I mean, they stand
out in a crowd.
Any time you see one of
them, there's just no doubt
that this is a member
of the Brotherhood,
because they have this sheen and
this innocence in their eyes,
and this beauty about them.
And it was really
striking to me.
Anyway, that came about because
I have a very deep connection
in me with this teacher called
Omraam Mikhael Aivanhov, who
I mentioned in the
credits in my book.
>>REGINA: But you didn't go
into depth in any of this,
and I was just curious
about this link.
>>RUDD: Well, his
teaching and the teaching
of the master that came before
him, Peter Deunov, who's
the man from Bulgaria.
They brought this incredible
teaching-- Christ teaching,
in a way-- that integrates east
and western concepts, quite
complex concepts, and Kabbalah
and all kinds of things.
But in a very,
very clear package.
So the way that-- you can tell
that they're speaking truth.
You can tell that
they're speaking
from truth, these two teachers.
And I feel myself to be very
much part of that lineage.
And a strong part
of the Gene Keys
is this notion of
there being a synarchy.
A brotherhood, a
fellowship that exists
at a higher plane of
consciousness that
is waiting to incarnate
on this planet
and then change the
structure of the planet.
It's an old prophecy.
>>REGINA: Thank you
for sharing that.
I appreciate it, because
I just wanted to know.
>>RUDD: Its mystical, yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Because you do have
deeply mystical roots.
And so naturally, that
spiked my interest.
>>RUDD: People don't often
ask me those questions.
But it's good to have them.
>>REGINA: Yes, thank you.
So now we're going to go
into some of the structure.
We already talked about a little
of the foundational structure
of where Ra was, and
this has been built upon.
And you incorporate
the number of 64.
This seems to be very sacred.
And 64 gates.
Can you talk about this.
The importance of
64 in the system.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
Well, 64 keeps
appearing everywhere.
It appears in the
structure of music,
which is the harmonic
nature of the cosmos.
The octaves.
The eight octaves.
It appears in the phi
ratio that underlies
sacred architecture
and sacred geometry.
It appears in our DNA
through 64 codons.
And more recently,
it appears to appear
through the physics of a man
called Nassim Haramein, who's
a physicist who I'm sure some
of your listeners will know.
>>REGINA: We have programs
with Nassim on them.
>>RUDD: So he believes,
based on his research,
that the actual underlying
matrix of space time
is based on a 64-fold matrix.
So it appears in lots of places.
>>REGINA: And the I Ching?
>>RUDD: And of course
in the I Ching, which
tracks the seasons and the
fractal cycles of existence.
So it is an incredible
template for life
and for the fractal
nature of the universe.
The way in which it expands and
the way in which it evolves.
So the Gene Keys is obviously
based on these 64 gene
keys, that's what
they're called.
And each one of them is
a portal into the matrix.
And we have different--
there are many different ways
into that matrix.
>>REGINA: And then
DNA is one of them.
And you refer to
DNA very differently
than it's normally referred to.
Because as I have
it written here,
as a wormhole that opens to
the holographic universe.
And it's programmed
from conception.
And so I would like you spend
a little bit of time on that
so that we get the
scientific underpinnings--
the esoteric scientific
underpinnings for this.
>>RUDD: Well, someone
recently said to me,
they were talking
about the Gene Keys,
and they said, it's
really interesting
to have DNA explained
and understood
by a poet rather
than a scientist.
Because that's exactly
what you get from me.
I'm not a scientist.
I have some basic
scientific understanding.
>>REGINA: No, you're a mystic.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
So yes, DNA as a wormhole.
I mean, that was my personal--
is my personal experience
through having these
awakened experiences.
Because I realized that DNA is
the last line within our body
before we enter the
subatomic world,
which is the world of the one.
So it is the very threshold
of the form and the formless,
which is why it's the wormhole.
So when you contemplate
a series of archetypes
that relate to your
DNA, then you're
entering into
multiple wormholes.
But they all lead
to the same place.
But the journey for each
wormhole is very different.
So you can work with the Gene
Keys according to your own way.
But each one of them leads
you through some terrain
that is uncomfortable.
>>REGINA: Oh, it does.
We are going to be
going into that.
Yeah, absolutely.
>>RUDD: And you move
through that and out
into the light of
the other side.
So it's an archetypal journey.
>>REGINA: As you said, the
conversation, that three hour
conversation you had with your
friend who was a psychiatrist,
you know that there's a
shadow side to each of these.
And I found the way you laid it
out, I mean, it's a fat book,
but I found it so
beautifully done.
Because again, it has
all this dimension.
All these ways of viewing
one's experience and interface
with life from the
darkest of our hours
to the absolute most sublime.
So when a person-- and we are
going to be telling everyone
at the end that you can do
a self-test, and it's free.
You can get your own analysis
and then you buy the book
and you can work with it
for a lifetime, really.
So when you're entering
the data to begin with,
are you going primarily
on the imprint
of a name or a birth date?
>>RUDD: A birth date.
But I have to say, that's
one way into the Gene Keys,
through your birth date.
>>REGINA: What's
the other way in?
>>RUDD: There are
many other ways.
Some of them I haven't released
yet, but they're coming.
>>REGINA: OK.
So we're going
with the birthday.
Now, once a person has
established-- well,
they have their chart
in front of them
and have begun establishing
certain patterns, gates,
so forth, and looking
at what is active
and what seems to be a little
more passive and not yet
developed and so forth.
Do you find-- and I'm
tying this back to DNA--
do you find that there
are familial patterns that
occur when you read people from
a particular lineage or family?
>>RUDD: To be honest, I don't
do those kind of readings.
But I used to.
And yes, I used
to see them a lot.
And now what I do
when I'm with people
who are starting the Gene Keys
is they bring out their profile
often, and they can shove it
over towards me and go, go on.
Tell me something you see.
And one of the things I
see, because we're all
connected by this same
wisdom, is repeating patterns
that appear either in
my family or in my chart
or in-- there are a
lot of repetitions,
which I call
fractal repetitions.
And they're kind of the
wormholes that connect us.
And when I was talking
about synarchy,
they are the evidence, in a
way, of the divine pattern that
brings people together
at different times
for different reasons.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And we hear about this in the
parlance of-- well, others
who are dealing with the shadow
forces and DNA and subconscious
mind and so forth, where
we seem to be choosing
a particular experience with
a particular group of people
or tribe until we work
through this thing.
And the thing we're working
through then, is the shadow.
And you're saying that that
shadow, by virtue of this,
is essentially embedded from
the point of conception.
>>RUDD: Yes.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Not from birth.
>>RUDD: No, from conception.
Because conception--
>>REGINA: Talk about
this for a little bit.
>>RUDD: Well, conception
is the wormhole
that leads back through the
ancestral DNA, all the way back
through mitochondrial DNA,
to the first Eve, so-called.
So it's all the different
lines of conception, moments
of conception, where this
sacred wound is passed on
from generation to
generation to generation.
And I call it the sacred
wound because the closer you
get to it, the more you're
standing on holy ground,
in a way.
So going into your
shadow is the place
where the Gene Keys begins.
But the point of
conception, you don't
have to know your
point of conception.
That doesn't matter.
But that's where-- it's
like the mini Big Bang.
That's what it is.
It's a holographic
echo of the Big Bang,
because it's the
same set of forces
that occur at that
point of conception.
So when the Big
Bang occurred, that
was when the first wounding
of the cosmos occurred.
I mean the Big Bang
is a wound in a way.
It's beautiful, but
the wound is the split
as these crystals
of consciousness
shattered and started to create
the cosmos as we know it.
But there was also a
hole that appeared.
The core.
You know, there has to be a
black hole, always at the core.
>>REGINA: The core
of every atom.
>>RUDD: Yeah.
And so the cosmos is endlessly
trying to fill that hole.
And that's the wound.
And until the cosmos gets
back and has filled that hole
entirely, we won't be complete.
And that is also the journey
of the human evolution
towards enlightenment.
It is going into this
dark place inside us
and realizing that there's this
need in us to fill that hole.
And everything we do
in the outer world
is trying to fill that hole.
So really, it's about
coming to acceptance
of what that process
really means.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
so that's the part
that we tend to run away from.
That's the part where
we go down to-- here,
we go down to the
pub and have a pint,
so we don't have
to deal with it.
>>RUDD: Distract yourself so you
don't have to feel that, yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now this is going to be
maybe totally off-topic,
maybe not so much.
It's just something that's
popping up as you're talking.
We're talking about this DNA.
We're talking about
the familial patterns.
We're talking about the soul
of the repetition of the things
that we are continuing
to refine in ourselves.
In the Rosicrucian
teachings, there
is a phenomena, which I've
just been thinking about this
recently for a
particular reason, where
the point at which a soul
departs the physical reality is
often the same point one
tends to incarnate back
into the physical reality.
Do you have anything
in there that
kind of looks at or
addresses that dynamic?
>>RUDD: Certainly I think that
there are patterns of-- just
as the Gene Keys is
about when we incarnate,
it's very interesting
when we excarnate.
And I had a very dear friend
recently who excarnated,
who left.
And so I looked at the
time to see when she left,
because she left in
a very perfect way.
Even though it was deeply
tragic and painful for everyone,
the actual passing was in a
very, very beautiful manner
and a very beautiful location.
You couldn't have picked
a more holy moment.
And so it's always
of interest to me
to look, well, what's the
pattern that she or any of us
carry with us when we leave?
And that pattern
will bring us back
into another phase,
another cycle.
>>REGINA: I find
that fascinating.
>>RUDD: Yeah, it is.
It is.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I know someone where
something very literally,
within their family, happened
exactly like that recently.
It just brought
tears to my eyes.
>>RUDD: Yeah, the Gene
Keys track these things.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, we can go
into the Gene Keys.
Let's go into how
it's laid out instead
of going into the Projector,
Generator, and all that.
We're going into the
aspects like Activation.
The sequences.
Activation, Venus, and Pearl.
Yes.
>>RUDD: Yes.
I should probably backtrack
a little bit from that--
>>REGINA: Sure, do.
Whatever works.
>>RUDD: --just so there's
a context around it.
When you begin working
with your profile,
your Gene Keys profile, which
I call hologenetic profile,
bit of a mouthful, but
it says what it is.
And the more you go
into it, the more
you realize what
that word means.
The profile is an
interactive profile.
So it's not information-based,
like a lot of profiles.
You look at it and you
go, oh, I'm one of those.
I'm one of these.
It is an interactive map.
>>REGINA: It's very complex.
>>RUDD: Well, it
seems complex, yes.
But you take it step by step.
It's a very clear path,
logically laid out.
Step one, you know.
And step one begins with a
plate, the position of the sun
when you were born, and so
your sun sign in astrology.
And in Gene Keys it's
called your life's work.
So you begin with,
what is the Gene
Key you have for
you life's work.
And that tells you-- like my
life's work is the 64th Gene
Key, as it happens.
The very end one.
And that is the
shadow of confusion,
the gift of imagination,
and the siddhi,
which is the highest
aspect, is illumination.
So my life's work is to
overcome the confusion inside me
in order that I can use my
creative imagination to reach
the state of illumination and
then pass that on to others.
Simply put.
I mean, I could give you
hours on each Gene Key,
but that's in a nutshell.
So the first path you go
through is called the activation
sequence, and it's a
series of Gene Keys that
relate to your purpose,
beginning with that one.
So phase one, part one, is
called the activation sequence.
It's about purpose, and
it's about anchoring
the deep sense of
purpose that you have.
That you came to the world
with inside your body.
And everyone's always, in the
new age, looking for purpose.
What's my purpose.
What the Gene Keys--
the insight they
bring to you is that
purpose isn't something
you're here to do.
It is a presence you
are here to emanate.
So you have to
find that presence,
and then you can
relax, because you
don't need to worry about
what you're here to do.
That takes care of itself.
That comes out of your
sense of deep purpose.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I like this aspect of
your work, by the way.
>>RUDD: Yeah, thank you.
So it kind of relaxes you.
And then part two, once you've
taken that information in,
and there's a breakthrough to
be had in that, by the way.
I should say
something about that.
>>REGINA: Yes, do.
>>RUDD: When I'm talking to
people about the Gene Keys,
and they're looking at the
Gene Keys from the outside,
they haven't really
started learning yet.
You see this big book,
and it looks complex,
and the profile seems complex.
And you just think, it's just
another complicated system.
I haven't got time.
I don't want to go into that.
And that's what it looks
like from the outside.
>>REGINA: But once
you start going,
it's really very
linear and clear.
>>RUDD: But once you go
in, what you're really
looking for is a breakthrough.
And the moment you've had
your first breakthrough,
I always joke, it's kind of
like a really sweet golf shot.
I'm a golfer.
Or a tennis shot,
or whatever it is.
And you once you feel that kind
of deep harmony in your body,
you want another one.
You spend your whole life
trying to get another one.
>>REGINA: When you say, once you
have your first breakthrough,
how would that occur?
>>RUDD: It can be
different levels.
It can be a mental breakthrough.
So you really have a deep--
>>REGINA: So you just
understand it differently.
>>RUDD: --insight into
something in your life
that you never saw before.
Or it can be an
emotional breakthrough.
A mental breakthrough,
I call it insight.
An emotional breakthrough
I call a breakthrough.
>>REGINA: It's like a deepening.
>>RUDD: Which is an
emotional-- something
opens up in your heart.
Some recognition at
a cellular level.
And then the deepest
is an epiphany,
which is when all three levels
are involved, the physical as
well.
And that's when the DNA itself
mutates inside you and right
down all those levels,
you have a kind
of deep, cellular
certainty about something.
And it changes the direction
of your life to a degree.
And so the purpose of going
through this information
in sequence, through these
sequences and layers,
is to give you that
experience of an epiphany.
Because the epiphany
is the thing
that completely catapults
you into another level
of awareness.
And you want to have
more of those, for sure.
>>REGINA: So you're
saying, do not skim.
>>RUDD: Do not skim.
>>REGINA: Do not
skim in this journey.
You can't, really.
I mean, you could
try, but it would--
>>RUDD: It's not a
knowledge for skimmers.
>>REGINA: No, it
would not. [CHUCKLES]
OK so now that you've
laid that foundation,
and you've talked
about activation, let's
go into what is termed as
the Venus phase of the chart.
>>RUDD: Yeah, the second
phase is Venus Sequence.
You move from purpose
to partnership.
And it's the passage
to love, essentially.
It is the deepest part of
the whole Gene Keys work,
and it's always the part that
I kind of hand to my heart,
feel the most proud of.
Because I know how deep it is,
and it's extraordinary work.
It's the feminine
part of the Gene Keys.
And it takes you into
the series of Gene Keys
that you have to follow
through in that sequence.
That are unlocked in a sequence.
Takes you back through
your childhood cycles,
seven year cycles
of your childhood.
And they show you layers of
wounding that appeared around
your heart in response to the
environment that you lived in.
And there's no blame on
that, because remember,
the sacred wound was there
before you even born.
So this is just
the way in which it
manifests in your life for you.
So you might have a specific
mental defense pattern,
for example, that evolved
when you were a teenager.
That's when the mental
defense pattern comes in,
when you're a teenager.
And so the first
place you come to
is that pla-- you have to look
and see, well, what is it.
What is the belief
system that I took
on in that period
of my life that
is stopping my
heart from opening
and basically ruining my
relationships, endlessly.
So once you find that belief,
it's an extraordinary thing.
You find it, and it
starts to open up
a portal to another layer.
So in a way, the
Venus Sequence is
a bit like cracking
the code of a safe.
You turn it that way, it clicks.
You turn it another
way, eventually you open
and you get the heart inside.
So the next layer in
is the emotional layer,
and that's from eight till 14.
Puberty.
The second seven year cycle.
And that's a very tender
place for all of us,
because that's where we create--
we had this fundamental defense
strategy to protect our
hearts because of pain,
emotional pain that
was in our environment.
Might be in our mother,
might be in our father,
might be in other kids.
It could've been anything.
It could've been a divorce.
It doesn't even
have to be an event.
But it was in the aura.
It's in the world.
It's everywhere.
It's in the frequency
of consciousness
on the human plane.
So that Gene Key-- and
it has a line number.
They all have line numbers,
which also I talk about.
But that Gene Key explains
the specific pattern that
repeats in your
emotional life, that
keeps your heart protected.
And so it's a memory in
the cells of the body.
And you have to become
more aware of it.
So in the video sequence,
you make your relationships,
your spiritual path,
they become central.
And everyone has
relationships, right?
If it's an intimate
relationship,
that's the best one to go for.
But if you're not in a currently
very intimate relationship,
you just take the hardest
relationship you have.
It could be your mother-in-law,
it doesn't matter.
You focus on where the energy
is at its most challenging,
and you begin to see your
own patterns reflected back.
And so it's a process of deep
awareness of your own wounding.
So the Venus Sequence
is a wound map.
>>REGINA: Yes, it
and it's fairly
prominent in most charts.
You can see, because you have
the layers and the colors,
and you think, [GASP] what's
all that red doing there.
Really? [CHUCKLES]
But most of us
are carrying around loads
of subconscious pain
and dysfunction.
>>RUDD: The good news is though,
that actually, it just takes
awareness to clear the pattern.
Which is of course
what people have
been saying for a long time.
But to actually
find the pattern.
That's where the Gene
Keys are really helpful,
because they show you,
specifically, a pattern
to contemplate and watch for.
And once you begin to
contemplate it and watch it,
it begins to show
itself very quickly,
and you begin to feel
a bit of discomfort.
So you have three levels
in the Venus Sequence.
It's called Allow,
Accept, and Embrace.
It's a process.
>>REGINA: No, you have to put as
Larry the Cable Guy would say,
your big girl under britches on.
[LAUGHTER]
In order to embrace it.
You do, really.
It takes courage.
>>RUDD: It takes courage,
and it takes time.
And the process of
getting to Embrace
requires a lot of commitment.
The Gene Keys
require commitment.
And they also require support
in the Venus Sequence stage.
So I recommend that people to
with friends or with someone
that they trust.
Even if they're doing
it on their own,
I recommend that
they have someone.
Because it's about
relationships, to feed back to.
>>REGINA: And you have to
be willing to be vulnerable
and seen for what you are.
As this is indicating you are.
>>RUDD: And just
accept what you feel
at every stage, deeper
and deeper and deeper.
And it goes on getting deeper,
because eventually you get back
to that first seven
year cycle where
the physical
imprinting took place.
And that's the deepest,
because it's about our birth
and how we came
out into the world.
And in there is a
sphere, a position
called the SQ, the
Spiritual Quotient.
And the Gene Key that
you have in that position
relates to a very deep urge
that your physical body
has been seeking
throughout your life.
Ever since you were
six or seven or three.
Our memories mostly
stop at around four.
But before that, they're
remembered by the body.
They're cellular.
So the body remembers, even
though the mind may not
remember.
So we're trying to get
back to this deep--
whatever it is, urge.
It might be a feeling of
community for some people.
So that person will
be driven to find--
>>REGINA: It's more
like a soul urge.
>>RUDD: Yeah, to
find their community,
and they'll move the
whole planet, endlessly,
trying to find this thing.
And it's inside them.
So we're driven by these
deep motivating forces.
So you have to
see what yours is.
And then you realize,
oh, it's inside me.
I don't have to-- I've been
looking my whole life outside.
So when you see it,
it's remarkable.
Because suddenly
your heart relaxes.
And the heart opens in layers.
So the Venus Sequence
encourages layer by layer.
It's very gentle in that way.
It's very holding,
it's very tender.
The language used around it.
>>REGINA: And as you
say, what a release,
to be able to finally identify
that aspect of yourself that's
been seeking its own expression.
>>RUDD: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: OK.
So what about the Pearl part?
>>RUDD: The Pearl.
Well, I have to just
finish the Venus Sequence,
because it leads into the Pearl.
The way these are
holographic is that they
fold-- they're
enfolded in each other.
So purpose comes first.
Once you're anchored
in your purpose,
you're ready to go into your
relationships with a new view.
Once you've got to the final
spirit of the Venus Sequence,
it's called The Core.
Sometimes I call
it the Core Wound,
but some people don't
like the sound of that.
That relates to the
point of conception.
And it relates to the journey
from conception to birth.
And it was is in
those nine months
that all our patterns
are laid down.
All our holding patterns, all
our kind of resistance patterns
are actually imprinted in
those three trimesters.
And that's a very,
very precious time.
I mean, for your awareness
to start reaching back
beyond the point of your birth
is a very, very deep level
of contemplation.
And actually, contemplation
then turns into something else.
It becomes absorption,
which is a mystical state,
as your awareness starts
to turn in on its own
and reach the core.
And that's-- this is
like deep meditation.
This is where your whole aura
starts to fold in on itself,
and you go into deep periods
of spontaneous silence.
Because the essence
is seeking itself.
It's trying to get back to
that point of conception.
Because that's where--
the point of conception
is where enlightenment is.
Because that's where it began.
So that's where it ends.
So your awareness has to travel
through all these layers,
past your birth, and
the breath patterns that
came through your birth, to
this quiet, silent place.
And when it hits that core, it's
an extraordinary experience.
I mean, I've had
that experience.
I'm not saying I'm
awake, but I've
had an experience of
my awareness hitting
the core inside me.
And it's beyond words.
It can't be described.
Even talking about it, I feel
like I might cry, so [SIGH].
>>REGINA: This is a moment you
understood what your being was
trying to express
in this incarnation.
>>RUDD: I think what I
experienced when that happened
to me was I saw the wound
of-- the sacred wound
of the whole of humanity.
I felt it.
I didn't just see it.
It was deeply uncomfortable.
I mean, it made me feel sick
to the core of my being.
But I see the
preciousness of it,
because just the other
side of it is the light.
I mean, it contains the light.
It contains all the light.
Because it's before
consciousness began.
So you have to penetrate that.
And that's the final stage
of the Venus Sequence.
It's very mystical.
I mean, I haven't really taught
that one, because I'm not
there yet myself, for one thing.
And also, it's a
path of silence.
And so it's a mystical
path that will
come in the evolution
of the Gene Keys.
I feel that.
But then you get to the
Pearl, which is, by the way,
the one all the men want to get,
because it's about prosperity.
So they go, can't I
do the Pearl first?
>>REGINA: Don't have to look
at this other stuff. [LAUGHS]
>>RUDD: No, I don't do this
heart, woman, feminine stuff.
I want to just go
and get the money.
It's very funny to me that
the order of the sequence
is this way.
Purpose, partnerships,
prosperity.
You only know what
prosperity is, truly,
when your heart is open.
Because otherwise, you
don't know why you're here.
You don't know what to give to.
You don't know who to-- you
don't know-- you can't give.
There's not enough
to give of yourself.
So you need your purpose
to know where to give,
and then you need your heart
open to know how to give.
And then the Pearl
shows you to whom.
It shows you your connection
to the collective.
So it places you-- literally,
when your heart is opened,
serendipity places you
exactly where you are needed.
And it gives you the prosperity
that you need in order
to achieve your purpose.
It's very simple.
You just have to do
the awareness thing.
And then you get the prosperity.
The Pearl is a sort of
finale of the golden path.
That's what these
sequences are known as.
It's interesting to look at it.
I look at the Pearl with people
who are working in groups.
And there are things you can
see, because there are places--
there are ways in which we
work with each other that
are designed to
be easier for us.
So when you see
what your Pearl is,
you see what you're not
here to do, in a group.
And so you see, for instance, it
might be that like, in my case.
I'm about-- the
keynotes are very funny.
They're corporate keynotes.
I've taken corporate words and
sort of breathed a new life
into them.
So the first one is Production.
So I'm Production.
There's only six.
And you're going
to be one of them.
So I'm Production.
So I'm just a
machine for the Gods.
>>REGINA: Well, that's kind of
like what a Generator is, even
in Human Design.
A lot of energy.
>>RUDD: I pump out books.
I pump out this.
I'm just producing it.
But the second one is marketing.
I have no idea about marketing.
I've never known,
really, how to market.
Strategy is the third one.
Again, not my scene.
The fourth one is
Sales, which is
a resonance with the
first one, but it's still
a different realm.
And then you have Management.
And then you have Philanthropy.
That's another story.
But those six, when you
see which one you are,
you see which ones you're not.
So it shows you, relax.
You're not meant
to do all of these.
People take on so much.
They try to do all of these.
But because their hearts
haven't opened fully,
they're not drawing
in the people
that will do the other things.
It's magnetic.
Synchronicity brings them in.
And this is how-- the
Gene Keys, what it does,
is it just describes the
life when freed from fear.
Let it go.
That's all it does.
It describes your process.
And it allows you to
go through a process
of letting go of the
layers of that fear,
and at the same time,
watching the miracles come in.
Because that's a byproduct.
>>REGINA: Well, and one
of the beautiful elements
is that ultimately,
you should discover
your genius in yourself.
And for people who have not
discovered their genius,
because of all these other
wound factors we've discussed,
the vast majority
of people really
don't discover their
genius, is my observation.
Can you explain how the
word genius is used first
in this system,
and then what we're
feeling like when
we're not finding it.
And then question number
three, embedded in that,
how do we get to it?
How do we finally discover it?
>>RUDD: Well, I
used the word genius
because when you talk
about the Gene Keys,
people receive a
lot of information.
And it's on different
levels, the information.
I mean, the Gene Keys, I
call it a transmission.
So it's not just
information that is mental.
It also travels at an emotional
level and at a cellular level.
So I hope that people who are
watching this, some of you
may feel things
going off inside you.
That's because it's
a transmission.
And I give the word
genius because it's
kind of an easy
thing to remember.
And it's true, it
is about genius.
But if you don't remember
anything about the Gene Keys,
and you're in the pub, and
you're talking to someone,
and they say, what
is that thing?
And you go, oh,
it's about genius.
So it's a really good
one word, one line.
But it is about genius.
And everyone has
that light inside.
Everyone is born with that.
And yes, you're right.
Most people are living lives of
compromise, where they believe
that genius is somewhere--
oh well, I'll maybe get it
when I've got to
the end of this,
or when I've paid off my
mortgage, then I'll do it.
Or when I'm
enlightened, then I'll
have it, this and this and this.
>>REGINA: It's very sad.
>>RUDD: Right.
And so it's a-- yeah, it is sad.
So the first thing you
have to see through
is that pattern that
makes you believe
that you can't claim it.
Even if you're at
the end of your life,
you can still claim it.
I had, this morning,
a conversation
with a lovely older man.
And he said, what is this thing?
And I said, it's genius.
And he said, oh,
it's too late for me.
I said, well, why don't you
end your life with a bang?
[LAUGHTER]
It's never too late.
Because the light's
always inside us.
When you're older, it's closer.
Because you're more open.
Because you're thinking
about-- you know, departing.
Anyway, for all of us, there
is a very clear path to it.
That's what the
Gene Keys lays down.
A very clear, step by step
path that you use contemplation
as an art, as a way
of moving closer.
So you have to see the layers
that are in the way first.
And then as they
dissolve, you begin
to see the genius rising up
in your heart, essentially.
Because it does come
through our heart.
The genius flowers
when our heart flowers.
>>REGINA: And we might know
that we're more removed from it,
or blocked from it, in
terms of the amount of pain
we're experiencing in our lives.
I mean, pain is a
wonderful indicator
throughout all of
this, isn't it?
>>RUDD: It is.
Yeah.
Especially physical pain.
People with physical
things in their body.
It's a really good way to
begin, because physical pain,
as you said, it's an indicator
of an issue or a shadow
pattern.
So it needs to be explored.
It's why it's hurting.
Because it's saying, look,
there's something here.
This is your route.
This is the way.
Follow me.
This is the White Rabbit.
Down, follow me down the hole.
But it's the last thing
most people want to look at.
But that's where
you have to look.
That place that hurts the most.
And you have to go
in and explore it.
It's the same in relationships.
The issues-- the relationships
that are hardest,
those are the ones that
you need to explore.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
>>RUDD: Because they contain
the greatest gifts and rewards.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Let's use someone as an example.
And I think, when we were
emailing back and forth
a couple of months ago,
deciding to do this,
I think I had asked you for a
chart of someone well-known.
If I'm not mistaken, did you
say we might take a look at--
was it Deepak Chopra.
>>RUDD: We did do Deepak.
And I've completely
forgotten his--
>>REGINA: Oh, goodness.
OK.
Is there someone
else that you can
think of so we can kind
of get an idea of what
that looks like.
Put a face to it, so we can see.
>>RUDD: Yeah, sure.
The one I can think of, I
don't know why he's coming up,
is the teacher, Sai Baba,
who's a controversial teacher,
in a way.
But it always makes me laugh,
because he has the 14th Gene
Key, I think.
That's his life's work.
And this is one that's about--
the siddhi, the highest aspect,
is about bounteousness.
And so he's known
as someone that
can manifest-- I mean,
whether you believe in it
or not doesn't matter.
Gold watches and
vibhuti, the sacred ash.
And he has this kind of aura.
>>REGINA: His manifestation
abilities, yes.
>>RUDD: And it's
interesting to me,
because the siddhis, these
higher states, they do really
exist.
But we've completely
forgotten them.
We think they're kind of
the superheroes on TV,
and they're just fantasy.
But they are absolutely real.
And there are 64 of
them, variations.
When I discovered that, by the
way, it was really interesting.
Because I googled 64
siddhis and discovered
there is a tradition
of the 64 siddhis.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
Well, like you said,
it was a download.
>>RUDD: Yeah, it was.
Yeah, I'll be doing
courses about them
in the future, about what
each siddhi looks like.
Some of them are truly
magical powers or miracles.
Others are more sort of
ordinary, but really beautiful.
Compassion is a siddhi.
In fact, all the siddhis
contain each other.
So every siddhi has at
its heart, compassion.
And peace is another one.
But they all have--
they're the manifestations
of enlightenment.
So in a way, what the Gene Keys
provides through this complex
looking profile is
a map of what you
look like when
you're enlightened.
It's quite extraordinary.
But I don't know where
that exists anywhere else.
It gives you that vision
to balance the shadow work.
And you have to have that.
In fact, that vision of
yourself as a higher being
is more important
than the shadow.
So I would say to people, put
80% or 90% of your awareness
in that higher
vision of yourself,
and keep the 10% on your
shadow, just so that you're
vigilant in the watching for it.
>>REGINA: Let's
just take a moment.
Because you've spoken
quite a lot about siddhis.
And we're not talking about
C-I-T-Y or C-I-T-I-E-S.
Talk about siddhi
as you know it.
>>RUDD: Siddhi.
S-I-D-D-H-I. It's a Sanskrit
word meaning divine gift,
or examination of-- it's
your highest emanation.
There's another
English word for that.
>>REGINA: So it's your
highest emanation.
Just think in case
anyone thought
you were talking about cities.
>>RUDD: So in Gene Keys,
you have these three levels
for each Gene Key.
A shadow, a gift,
and the siddhi.
So you have these three levels.
And the siddhi, which
is the highest essence,
is actually hidden
in the shadow.
Which is why you have to
go through the wormhole
of the shadow to
get to the gold.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now let's go to
what happened when
you were writing
the 55th Gene key.
>>RUDD: OK.
55th Gene Key is a
big transmission.
Essentially, when I
started to write that one,
it just carried on writing
and carried on writing,
and it opened up.
It's the gift and the
siddhi are the same,
and the word is freedom and
the shadow is victimization.
So it's victimization
to freedom.
So what happened
for me in that one
is I realized that
there's a mutation taking
place in humanity.
This is something that I
learned from Human Design.
But I never actually
felt it in Human Design.
But I felt it when I went
into the 55th Gene Key.
It's a place inside
all human beings where
a change, a genetic
change is taking place.
And that change is bringing
increased awareness
to people all over the planet.
And the increase
in awareness begins
with us pulling out
these victim patterns.
Which is what the new age
is bringing us towards.
Sometimes you begin with
aromatherapy or something,
and it's gentle.
>>REGINA: And then you
go to Dr. Phil. [LAUGHS]
>>RUDD: Exactly.
But eventually, you evolve
and you find your way up
to this shadow work, and
you start pulling out
these victim
patterns inside you.
And you start to
find your purpose.
And you start to open
your heart again.
And then you start
reaching the higher levels.
So the 55, as a Gene Key, I
recommend everyone read it.
It's amazing.
It's a prophetic piece of
crazy writing in a way.
It's for free on my
website, just sitting there.
It explains this
massive change that's
about to take place in
humanity and on our planet.
And after I'd written
it, I thought,
can I really put that out there?
All that?
It was really quite fantastical.
That the world is
going to change
on so many different levels.
Because there's
this-- we're changing
from inside our
genetic structure.
Mother nature is mutating
us, because we are now
a danger to the planet.
And when that's happened in the
past, when a creature becomes
a danger to the whole
planet, it mutates.
Because in a way,
that's its-- that's
the breakthrough it needs.
It's accelerated and been
so successful in one realm,
it then has to mutate
to the next level.
So the 55th Gene
Key is a mutation
that takes place in our belly,
in our solar plexus, which
is opening up a new awareness.
A collective awareness.
A spiritual awareness.
An awakened awareness.
And it's in the belly.
>>REGINA: Is it moving away from
victimization toward freedom.
>>RUDD: Yes.
Towards freedom.
Freedom at the deepest
level of the word.
So it's opening up freedom in
our genetic matrix inside us.
>>REGINA: Mm.
That's big.
>>RUDD: That's huge.
That's why in that
Gene Key, I describe
the potential
far-reaching results.
You know, the byproduct through
our society as that change
comes.
So the environment
changes, the schools
change, the way in which we run
governments, it all changes.
Science changes.
Everything.
>>REGINA: And is this
commonly found, for example,
in the activation part
of people's charts?
Or is this rare?
>>RUDD: The 55th Gene Key?
It's sprinkled liberally
throughout the genome.
So yes.
>>REGINA: Just out of
curiosity, what's the 56th Key?
>>RUDD: Intoxication is
the siddhi and distraction
is the shadow.
Sometimes you can see the
connections between them.
And yeah, it's a nice one.
Is that one of yours?
>>REGINA: Yes, it is.
It just popped into my head.
I thought, I remember
seeing a 56 somewhere.
>>RUDD: Yeah, every Gene
Key has a relationship
to a kind of deity.
And every Gene Key has a
relationship to a plant
and an animal and a mineral.
They're fractal.
It's a fractal wisdom, this.
So the deity of that
one would be Dionysus.
The love of-- the
exquisite love of life,
and the celebration of
life, and the wine of life.
And so it's language.
Intoxication is of that realm.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
Now we really do have only
about five minutes now.
So let's go into everything
we haven't covered
yet and kind of wrap
this around again.
Because one thing I would
like you to touch on
is some people are
listening and thinking,
God, it sounds so
beautiful, I don't
know that I have the
depth to even pursue it.
You have a Gene Keys Light,
and then the Gene Keys
where you can really go
in at sublime levels,
in terms of the
self-test, right?
>>RUDD: Yes.
Exactly.
You start by getting a profile,
which is free on genekeys.com.
And then you can look at that.
And then you're advised
to buy the book,
because then you can begin to--
>>REGINA: You really
need to, actually.
>>RUDD: I mean, there is
a lot of free material
before you do that.
So you can-- there's a
lot of things you can--
>>REGINA: Yeah, but it's so nice
to look at every Key-- I mean,
we didn't talk about the lines.
We just talked about the gates.
Not the connecting between
the gates and what all that
means, because we
don't have time.
But I agree with you.
It's nice to have it
sitting right there so you
can kind of get to it
and start the journey.
Harder to do it when you're
poking around on the web.
>>RUDD: Yeah, the book
you can use in many ways.
You can use it as an
Oracle, as a companion,
in the same way
as the original I
Ching was intended to be used.
Or you can begin using
it with your profile,
to decipher your profile.
And what I've done is I've
created a program that
shows you how to use the
book and your profile.
So you need three
elements, really,
to begin studying the Gene Keys.
And the program has 33 steps.
And it sounds a lot.
It's arranged in
these sequences;
Activation Sequence, Venus
Sequence, Pearl Sequence.
By the way, it's incredibly
affordable, I should say.
And the program takes
you through step by step.
The first step is
free on the website,
so people can look
at it and see.
It gives you very simple things.
Read this.
Contemplate this.
Look at that.
Listen to this audio.
Watch this webinar.
There are layers
of information that
take you step by step
deeper and deeper and deeper
into the matrix.
And it gets-- so it kind of
holds your hand as you go in.
And you start with
dipping your toe.
And then you put your foot.
And then you put your leg.
And then you go, right,
I'm going the whole way in.
And once you're in, that's
when the breakthroughs come.
And then you're on the inside
of the knowledge and the wisdom
rather than on the outside.
And then you get it,
and you go, [SIGH] God,
this is so exciting.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
Well, you mentioned
earlier in our conversation
that you couldn't speak about--
you weren't teaching this one
area because you
hadn't gone there yet.
So where's your work
evolving right now?
>>RUDD: I'm teaching
in Canada next June.
A very refined retreat
that is about the opening
of-- the permanent
opening of our heart.
So my work right now
is about the heart.
And until the heart
is completely open,
you don't take that journey
down that final wormhole
that leads to a full awakening.
So the heart opening is the real
culled face of the Gene Keys.
It's the juiciest part.
It is the part of
the Venus Sequence
where people really
get stuck in.
And there are a lot of
people now assembling
in different countries
around the world using it,
and in all kinds
of different ways.
The Gene Keys is a
very liberal system.
It's set up non-hierarchical.
It's not franchised out.
It's given out to countries.
It's given to people freely.
That's the teaching of
philanthropy in the Pearl.
And so it's a completely
different model
of sharing sacred knowledge
from other systems that
have appeared.
But obviously, you have to
still charge the golden path,
otherwise you can't maintain it.
>>REGINA: Right.
You can't keep doing
what you're doing.
Of course.
>>RUDD: So a lot
of it is available.
>>REGINA: Are a lot of
people making the transition
from Human Design into Gene
Keys as they find out about it?
I mean, how well-known
is it globally, now?
It's kind of everywhere?
>>RUDD: Yeah, I think so.
Yeah.
It's accelerating very
rapidly, because it
brings this other
element and layer.
And a lot of people
are coming to Gene Keys
without knowing Human
Design, which in some ways,
is an advantage.
Because then they don't have
to deprogram and reprogram
the way in which Human Design
has trained them to think.
Because they're
going to have to open
their minds to
another dimension.
Some people are ready
to do that anyway.
Some people won't
want to do that.
They will want to stay with the
original system and its kind.
>>REGINA: And there's nothing
wrong with the original Human
Design.
One thing about it is that if
you want to know, essentially,
how you function best, and how
you function with other people,
it's really good.
As you say, it's a system
that was laid out for that.
And it did lay a nice foundation
to be able to explode upon,
so to speak, in your download.
Right?
>>RUDD: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Any final thought?
>>RUDD: Well, I would
say embrace the shadow.
Open up the gift and
embody the siddhi.
That's the process.
It's about embodiment.
So this is about getting
the wisdom into our bodies.
Into our physical DNA.
And changing from inside
us through increased
awareness of everything
that's going on inside us.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
Now, can the viewers get your
book on places like Amazon?
>>RUDD: Yeah.
Book's on Amazon, everything
else is on genekeys.com.
>>REGINA: I think
that's where I got it.
OK, very good.
Thank you so much for your time.
And it is a beautiful work.
>>RUDD: Thank you very much.
It's lovely to be here.
>>REGINA: Again, as
we just mentioned,
you can find the
book, "The Gene Keys"
at amazon.com or
at genekeys.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on Gaiam TV in London.
[MUSIC PLAYING]